This quote cracked me up.
You can get up to a million dollars
or more in life insurance in case you die,
but you can only get about seven or eight dollars per hour
to live.
So, anyway, kind of funny.
Once you start a family
and start acquiring items like a house,
a car, and other items,
getting insurance is a great way to protect your family
and your family's standard of living too.
So before spending unnecessary money on insurance products,
what I want you to do is to please check to see
if the company or place where you work for or at,
if applicable, has any insurance benefits for you already.
Also, I want you to check to see if your credit card company
also has benefits for you, like free auto rental insurance
when you pay with certain credit cards.
Because I don't want you to pay twice.
And so when it comes to the company that you work for,
quite often, they provide some insurance because
group insurance plans are cheaper than
individual insurance plans.
For example,
many companies give you dental or eye insurance,
or subsidize your health insurance.
And so please ask human resources
or your boss about this if applicable.
And of course, your companies do this, they want to be nice
and keep you happy and everything.
They get tax breaks too, I'm sure, for doing this.
And so many companies already have life insurance for you
in the form of one to a few times your salary.
So ask HR or human resources, if applicable,
if they have this in place for you already.
Now, in exercise number nine question number two shown here,
we calculated that you should have ten years worth
of annual expenses available to your family
if you, God forbid, pass away.
Now, if your company provides
one, two, or three years of life insurance benefits, then
consider buying an additional seven or so years
so that your family has about 10 years worth of insurance.
And usually, when your loved ones receive insurance money,
it's tax-free in most countries.
Similar to what we did in exercise 15
when we called five banks and did a price shopping
to find the best bank for us,
I want you to do the same thing
when it comes to all types of insurance.
I'm not gonna create a separate exercise for that,
but I think you get the idea.
Call five insurance companies.
And quite often,
you can buy several if not all of your insurance products
from one insurance company, like State Farm or GEICO.
GEICO's got great commercials with that little lizard.
I think that's one of Warren Buffett's
favorite investments too.
For example,
if you buy a lot of insurance products
from one place, you might be able to save money.
Kind of like if you get your mobile phone, your home phone,
et cetera from one place, and your cable as well.
We call it triple play in the US.
There's four types of insurance products that
I recommend buying, as follows.
And we're gonna discuss more in detail
about each one of these in the next couple lessons.
The first kind of insurance that you have to buy,
especially if you have kids or family or dependents,
is life or disability insurance.
The second one is auto insurance,
the third one is home insurance,
and the fourth one is health insurance,
which includes dental and vision
if your company or country doesn't already cover these.
These are the four main ones.
And every year or two,
please call other insurance companies
and see if they can get you a better deal.
And if they say, yes,
they can give you a lower price on your insurance,
then call your existing insurance company
to see if they could lower your rate as well.
So why do we do this?
Because it costs you nothing to ask,
and nobody does this, hardly anybody.
Remember, ask and you shall receive.
A little prophetic, I know.
So you could buy more expensive insurance policies
that cover every penny you need,
or ones that are cheaper
as long as you pay a little bit out of pocket
when you need access to insurance products.
And this is called a deductible,
and I prefer deductible-based insurance because it keeps
the insurance fees that I pay lower.
And so, for example,
on a car insurance policy,
you might choose to have a $500 deductible amount
if you get into an accident.
This means that you pay the first $500 out of pocket,
and then the insurance company covers the rest.
And the insurance rates are much lower this way too,
and the likelihood of getting into car accidents
is not too high,
God willing.
So please decide for yourself, though, what you're
most comfortable paying when it comes to deductibles.
And so I'll give you an example.
My car, this kills me.
My car was recently hit when I was upstairs in the gym,
and police officers came upstairs
and they paged me.
I guess somehow they knew it was my car or whatever.
And what happened was I went down,
and, first of all, I checked to see
if the other guy was okay.
It was some guy, he went underground
really fast for some reason, he hit my car.
And so he moved my car six feet as well.
It wasn't my fault, and I was so frustrated, man, because,
you know, like why should I pay that $500 deductible.
It's completely his fault.
So I asked my insurance company,
and I asked aggressively too
in the nicest way I possibly could,
not impolite too.
But I asked them to call the other insurance company
and make the other insurance company
pay my $500 deductible.
And, initially, they said, "No, this is not normally done."
I said, "No. I want you to do this, please.
"Come on."
And they did it.
I was aggressive, I was a pit bull on a pork chop.
They ended up paying for my deductible.
I still had to rent a car,
which doesn't come out of my insurance,
comes out of their insurance.
You got to be a pain in the neck sometimes and just ask.
Kind of like when you go out to dinner
and ask for your meal to be made a certain or healthier way.
Now, when it comes to insurance, never buy more
than the absolute minimum amount you need, of course.
And a good credit history likely
helps you to have lower insurance costs as well.
Now, we spoke about how to improve your credit history
in the previous lecture.
Always ask insurance companies what you can do
to lower your cost of home insurance or life insurance
or auto insurance, et cetera.
Ask them, if you bought more insurance products from them,
could you get a rebate as well?
And there's so many different types of insurance products,
including ones that are investment vehicles for you,
meaning the proceeds of your insurance payments
can be invested in mutual funds.
This is called variable insurance.
And the opposite of this is called term insurance,
term meaning that you just pay for life insurance
for that term.
Term life insurance is the approach I recommend using,
as it lets you pay an annual or monthly amount
that will provide money to your loved ones
for periods of time called terms,
terms of five, 10,
I don't have 20 fingers, I'll use my toes,
20 years, et cetera.
Of course, the older you get,
the higher the annual rate is gonna be.
Also, you might need to take a physical exam
and give blood work, et cetera,
which I've had to do a number of times in the past.
And so, stay in shape before these exams,
these health exams,
and always, of course, keep improving your health because
you can actually lower your rate
if you're in better shape now
and get your health checkup done again.
Here's how much it costs.
A one-million-dollar policy can cost about $75 per month.
If you already have life insurance
and you were not in the best shape
before because you smoked or whatever it was
and you don't smoke anymore, then take
the physical exam again if you can and ask, as always,
for a lower rate after you take that new physical.
I don't like variable insurance products
because you pay for insurance by investing
in insurance companies,
and then those insurance companies
invest in stocks and mutual funds for you.
I really don't like this approach because you end up
paying a fortune in fees, and a lot of fees are hidden.
I also don't like this approach of buying life insurance
as a way to invest because I just don't trust them
and, again, their hidden fees.
Just stick with term-based life insurance,
meaning only buy life insurance products
from life insurance companies,
just like you don't buy...
I don't know.
You wouldn't buy cellular phones from McDonald's, right?
Awful example, but I think you know what I mean.
Okay, anyway.
So in part three of the course,
meaning the make money part of the course,
what we're gonna do is we're gonna discuss
why buying mutual funds is not a good investment,
as they have so many hidden fees,
and 95% of mutual funds
underperform indexes.
We'll get there soon.
And so we're gonna discuss buying much cheaper
index funds in part three of the course.
In the next four lessons here,
we're gonna discuss four types of insurance,
which I mentioned.
Life, auto, home, health insurance.
Again, only buy these products if your company
doesn't already give them to you,
as these companies you work for get great deals
because they buy in bulk
as part of group insurance products,
which means a lower price, kind of like
buying products in bulk when you're out shopping.